# CPSC597_Project
This is my graduate project for CPSC 597 II at CSUF.

Abstract:

The motivating factor behind this project is efficient multi-platform development for mobile platforms, specifically iOS and Android. In order to achieve this, a development environment that is suited just for this purpose is necessary, as traditional approaches to target different mobile platforms results in having to learn additional programming languages, and also getting familiar with a different development environment. The most compelling and mature integrated development environment that is used to accomplish the goal of multi-platform mobile development is Xamarin. Xamarin is a platform that allows for building mobile applications across the three major mobile platforms (iOS, Android, and Windows Phone) with the benefits of using one programming language, class library, and a runtime that is able to work across the different mobile platforms. For iOS, Xamarin uses its own Ahead-of-Time compiler which is responsible for compiling C# code into native ARM assembly code, and for Android, the idea is similar to iOS but instead the application code is compiled to Intermediate Language code by the Xamarin compiler, and then compiled down to native assembly. In addition to this the Xamarin platform includes the ability to use the existing iOS, Android, and .NET libraries. Many of these desirable features are used for this multi-platform mobile development project, and in addition, this project incorporates the popular Bootstrap web development framework, as well. The results of all this development is a mobile application where its users can listen to podcast episodes and read articles about the latest television shows, movies, and video games, all within a contemporary looking application.

